												Easy Words

resolve			to agree				even after meeting for two hours, the government leaders could not
										resolve their argument over new taxes.
occupy			to fill a space			the dentist's office occupied the entire fourth floor of the building.
imply			communicate with		the president implied that he wouldn't support the law against selling 
				saying specifically,	tobacco, but he didn't say it clearly.
				lead to a conclusion
maintain		to continue to say		until his death, Christopher Columbus maintained that he had sailed to	
				although people			Asia not America.
				disagree		
consequence		result, effect			if you hurt the people around you, there will be unwanted consequences.
rely			to depend on			in many countries, children rely on their parents for food, money, and 
										housing until they are over 20.
acquire			to get something		Janice isn't a doctor yet, but from her studies she is acquiring the 
										knowledge and skills she'll need.
evident			clearly seen			dogs' feeling are clearly evident in their action.
circumstances	in a situation			the professor only gives extra time to complete essays under special
										special circumstances. Normally it's not allowed.
conduct			to organize and manage	My research team conducting a study on how internet is changing dating 
										in five countries.
evaluate		to form an idea of		Students are evaluated by their grades on tests, homework, and in-class
				number, amount, or		interaction.
				value of something
invest			to spend money			Jemmy invested in an education company that he thought would succeed and
										make his rich.
precise			exact, carefully		because	the pirates weren't certain of the precise location of gold, they
				defined					dug holes all over the island.
decline			a slow continuous		many people say that America is in decline.
				loss of power
decline			polite refuse of		I declined dinner because I had plans to eat with my family instead.
				an offer
correspond		be a close match		This new painting in the room doesn't correspond the older one.
correspond		send letter back		My mother and father corresponded for almost two years before meeting in person.
				and forth
attribute		give credit for			The museum director attributed the newly discovered painting to me.
				something
reside 			to live					I reside in Bangladesh.
sustain			to keep going			No animal can sustain life without water.
prior			happening or being		The new CEO of Yahoo called the prior CEO for better understanding of the
				before					company.
notion			a belief, an idea		I think professor's notion of fun was different from students' notion of fun.
layer			to cover something		I layered the sandwich with all my favourite meat and cheeses.
site			the location of			The people of the city voted for a site downtown as the location of the 
				something 				new sport stadium.
contribute		to add					I smoked a lot when I was younger, and that has contributed to my health
										problems today.
considerable	large enough to get		A considerable number of sports have been invented in the past 100 years.
				notice
interpret		figure out meaning		I couldn't interpret the meaning of the extremely old book because the pages
				of something			were hard to read.
brief			short					before we begin class, let briefly introduce myself.
hypothesis		an idea which explains	The hypothesis that earth is growing was shown false.
				something but unproven
context			something that is said	when you cannot understand a word, look at the context. The word around it may
										tell the meaning.
whereas			although				Lemons are sour whereas most of the fruits are sweet.
contrast		to be different from	By contrasting the words of French and Spanish, we can see their different 
										histories.
assess			to look closely to		Before buying a house, you should always assess the building carefully.
				figure out the value
				of something
stress			place extra importance	If you stress the wrong words or sounds when speaking, you may not be understood.
				could be noun and verb	I think we should place greater stress on improving education.
hence			therefore,so,			the evidence is false, hence, the conclusion is false.
				as a result	
illustrate		explain with an			Jemmy illustrated his point by telling a short story.
				example
trend			a direction or way		today's computer culture is trending toward more touch-screen technology.
				something is changing
demonstrate		prove with evidence		At eight years old, Mozart demonstrated his musical ability in London.
despite			even with				We enjoyed the vacation, despite rain.
furthermore		also, in addition		Kenya have beautiful weather, furthermore, nights are not long there in winter.
project			to send out				Hoping to communicate with aliens, scientist projecting radio signal into
										space for many years.
nevertheless	however, regardless		The decision was dangerous. Nevertheless, Hitler attacked Russia.



													Medium Words
concede			to acknowledge defeat	I concede, you win!
linger			to stay for longer		Although the invitation clearly stated that the party would end at midnight,
				than expected			there were handful of guests still lingering at 2 A.M.
scrap			a small piece			the dog waited patiently for the family to finish eating, he knew that
										his best chance for a scrap of hamburger when they cleared the plate.
slender			thin and attractive		The slender movie star told everyone that she worked out a lot to keep fit,
										but she actually just had a fast metabolism.
overwhelm		to become to much to	Jasse thought he could work two jobs while studying full-time, but his new
				handle					schedule overwhelmed him, and his grades soon dropped.
ambiguous		having more than one	The coach told his team "Move to that side of the field," but because he didn't
				meaning					point, his directions was ambiguous nobody knew where to go.
provoke			cause to happen 		He insulted his friend's family repeatedly, hoping to provoke him for a fight.
downfall		A sudden lose of power	An inability to match the lower price of it's competitors led to the company's
				and success				downfall.
foster			to help the growth of	A good teacher not only teaches his students how to do well on the test, but also
				something				fosters the curiosity and excitement to learn in his students.
tint			a small amount of color	To prevent his famous passengers from being seen by the public, the driver applied
										a heavy tint to his car windows.
readily			without much			Because Derek adored the famous scientist, he readily agreed to work with him
				difficulty or delay		without begging paid.
convey 			to communicate			a skilled actor can convey complicated emotions simply through facial expressions 
				information				and body language.
overcome		to win a victory		Determined to make more friend this year, Jack overcome his shyness and introduced
				over					himself to new students.
endeavor		try hard to accomplish	Ten years old Temmy fell down a lot while he was endeavoring to ride an adult's
										bicycle, but eventually he succeed.
persist			to continue to exist	Mery began to fear she would fail and die while trying to swim across the English
										Channel, but she persisted and made it across.
advocate		support a cause(n)		Matin Luther King was a tireless advocate for the rights of African-American in the
										United States.
coherent		logical and				Sadly, the most popular politicians are rarely the ones with the most coherent 
				understandable			argument.
specimen		a small amount used to	The scientist broke off a chip of the mysterious glowing rock and placed the 
				study the whole			specimen under the microscope to try to identify it.
accumulate		come together into		Greg didn't receive much mail each day, but when he went on a vacation for  
				large number			three weeks, it accumulated into a mountain of paper at his home.
convolute		complicated and			Instead of solving the math problem in simple three steps, Kumer used a convoluted 
				difficult to understand	solution requiring fifteen steps.
elegant			beautiful, graceful	The carefully practiced, elegant movement of the ballet followed the beautiful
										sounds of the orchestra.
scarce			very little				when gasoline became expensive and scarce, people found ways to travel without
										using their cars.
gratify			to make happy and 		Mrs. Layer wasn't expecting her children to come visit her for Mother's Day, she was
				satisfied				extremely gratified when they did.
culminate		to reach the pinnacle	Beethoven's musical genius culminated at 9th Symphony, which many consider his	
										greatest work.
consent			to give permission		the young student dreamed of studying abroad, but her parents would not consent to	
										her leaving for a foreign country.
compel 			make someone do			Clara hoped her son would clean his room on his own, but eventually she had to
				something				compel him by threatening to take away his television.
reconcile		to make two things 		Peggy was unable to reconcile her kind friend Jane with the murderous character Jane
				logical together		played on television.
perpetual		continue without pause	Although perpetual motion machines would be great source of energy, such machines
										don't exist; everything comes to a stop at some point.
deter			to try to prevent		The government's primary job should be to deter paths to war, not find reasons to
										start them.
endure			live through bad		without food and water for days, the three survivors had to endure great hunger and
				experience				thirst as they waited for rescue.
defiant			not doing what is		The teenagers were defiant and refused to help when Mr. Jhon ordered them to clean
				ordered					the mess they had made during their food fight.
impending		happening very soon		the impending doom of the world has been discussing and debating for over 2000 years.
inclination		the feeling of choose	Although the inclination is to ride a bike nearer to parked cars, they can be more
				one option				dangerous than moving ones, as a door may open in front of you.
persevere		to continue to do		Sarah persevere through the storm, fighting through the cold and rain, to make her
				something even though	way home for Christmas.
				it's difficult
resent			to be quite angry		I resented my elder brother for all the times he started fights with my friend and
				about something			me as children.
				somebody else did or
				said
indifference	lack of interest		To an effort to fight indifference, the president of the college introduced a new,
										stricter grading system.
impede			to make hard or			Virginia's back pains impeded her ability to work, until eventually she had to leave 
				impossible				her job entirely.
extravagant		overly expensive		Susie's wedding was extravagant, with a dinner with steak and lobster, invitation
										decorated with gold, and a ceremony at castle.
durable 		hard to break			Jack only buys durable shoes--if they can't survive at least ten years of regular
										wear, he won't even consider buying them.
devoid			not having any of		Milly is the most serious person I know--her stories are completely devoid of humor.
distort			change the shape		The twisted mirror distorted the man's reflection, making him appear twice as tall 
				from normal				and far too thin.
obscure			to make unclear			While they drove past the Grand Canyon, Mr. Smith's big head obscure much of Mrs.
										Rabinson's view, so she only saw small patches of red rock.
obscure			known by only few		Many words beginning with the letter 'X' are so obscure that only few people ever 
				people					heard of them.
conducive		helping to happen		Studying in a quiet room is conducive to learning; studying in a noisy place makes
										learning harder.
disperse		cause to separate		Students from many countries came for English classes at out school, but after the 
				and go in different		course ended, they dispersed and never met each other again.
				directions
eccentric		clearly unusual			Mozart was well know for his eccentric behavior, often speaking words backward to 
										confuse people around him.
disparate		separate and very		Studies as disparate as religion and biology have been brought together by research	
				different				into what happens in the brain during a religious experience.
warp			bend into different		The wood of the guitar warped after several hours of sitting in its owner's car, 
				shape					which grew extremely hot in the sun.
shimmer			shine or reflect small	The silver of her dress shimmered like diamonds every time the light hit it.
				bits of light
courteous		polite and respectful	Since tom is usually extremely courteous, his sister was shocked when he served their
										guests spaghetti using only his hands.
provided		only if					provided you study hard for the exam, you should do good enough to pass the class.
demolish		to completely destroy	The earthquake completely demolished the old home--no walls were left standing.
integral		very important			Sugar is an integral ingredient in cake recipe.	
mend			to fix					Jimmy and his father stopped talking to each other over the years and looked forward to
				(usually relation)		mending their broken relationship over holidays.
abrupt			sudden, unexpected		I was surprised by the abrupt change of the subject.
conform			to match the rule or	Before every yearly government inspection, the cooks would chase the mice to make the 
				standard				restaurant look like it conformed the cleanliness guidelines.
crude			very basic				Once he realized he had forgotten his tent, Arpita attempted to build a crude shelter
										out of mud, branches, and leaves.
dusk			the time of the day		Even though the sun had set and dusk had fallen, Sarah and Jack stayed on the beach,
				immediately after the	talking and laughing at the night.
				sun goes down
cling			to hold tightly onto	Standing in front of the airport, Judy clung to her father's arm and begged him not
										to leave.
preemptive		done before someone		Just as Jack was about to take the only cookie left on the table, Noah preemptively
				else can do it			grabbed it.
foe				an enemy				The robot army became a clear foe to all humans when they stopped doing what
										they are told to do and they began destroying homes.
										
													hard words
													
scheme			a large plans			Microsoft's marketing scheme for selling their new desktop computer was less than 
										successful.
facilitate		to make easier			Classical music, unlike any other types of music, will generally facilitate learning
										and improve memory.
institute		to start				I January, we will institute a plan to make car accident less frequent.
integrate		to become a part of		It is difficult to smoothly integrate a small, foreign culture into the main culture 
										of a country.
emerge			to come out of			After a winter spent in sleeping, the bear emerges from its cave.
discrete		separate				Your left arm and right arm are controlled by two discrete portion of the brain.
underlying		forming the basis of 	There is no single way to put an end to drug addiction since there are many underlying 
				something				causes behind it.
compensate		to correct a problem 	Tomy's new job pays him very low, but the freedom his boss has given him compensate 
				with something positive for that.
pursue			follow a dream			Man pursued the dream of flight for hundreds of years before the modern airplane
										was invented.
coordinate								A chef at a big hotel will spend his time coordinating all of the menus and the workers,
										not cooking.
perspective		point of view			From my perspective, professors shouldn't waste their time on television talk shows, 
										whereas they should spend their extra time in research.
apparent		clearly seen or			After only a few months later, it was apparent that the French would not win the war.
				understood
apparent		seeming but not true	The shark's apparent sleepiness is actually because of how cold the water is.
constrain		to restrict				Popular belief says that a pet fish's size is constrained by the size of the tank it
										resides, but it's not actually true.
grant			to admit				I disagree that snakes make good pets, but I'll grant that they are easy to take care
										of.
enforce			to make people follow	Although smoking is not allowed on the campus, this ban isn't enforced, and many 
										students smoke freely.
principle		a rule					The principles at the heart of the new religion are the same as many central beliefs
										of the Christianity.
constitute		to be the piece that	Fifty states constitute U.S.A.
				makes the whole
subsequent		immediately after		Both the winter and the subsequent spring was surprisingly dry with neither snow
										nor rain.
retain			to keep					Originally from France, Jeane retains her French accent even today.
exclude			to not include			I eat almost everything, excluding spicy foods. I hate hot peppers.
perceive		to be aware of			If hunters are skilled, the animals will not perceive the presence of the hunters.
orient			to become comfortable	It took few weeks to orient myself in the new job, but now I feel comfortable.
framework		a structure for a		Ellen's business plan may have failed, but it has build the framework for next 	
				building				successful plan.
diverse			having many different	Students population in South State University is incredibly diverse, with students
				types					from 30 different countries.
negate			to not effective		Studying late night may help you to learn more, but sleeping less negates the positive
										effect.
justify			to give reason for		Although Alan explained for a long time, but he could not justify the reason why he  
				an action				took his brother car without asking.
welfare			the health or happiness	A responsible government will always take the project of ensuring welfare of the 
				of a person or group	citizen as the first priority.
deduce			to figure out			By analyzing the bones, we can deduce when the animal lived and, maybe, how it died.
proportion								Cartoons of people often have exaggerated proportions, such as very big eyes or head.
seek 			to look for				Across many different cultures' stories, heroes seek more than just gold or fame.
anomaly			not normal				After finding anomalies in the data of her experiment on the effect of caffeine 
										on turtles, she started the experiment again from the beginning.
probe			to explore using hands	The new camera designed to probe the interiors of blood vessels, giving the doctors	
				or tools				a details view of the blood vessels that they have never had before.
preposterous	completely impossible 	Although it may be ridiculous today to think that the earth is flat, it's even more
										preposterous to think that the sky is a physical blue disk.
fatigue			extreme tiredness of	The three days of hula-hooping contest left even the most experienced hula-hooper 
				too much work			with fatigue.
delusion		an incorrect idea		I think his dream of living in wealthy Beverly Hill is a delusion, but he continues 
				that somebody believes	to tell people that is where he will be living in a year.
induce			cause to happen			Staring at the small screen of a smartphone while on a car or train can induce 
										headaches and motion sickness.
transitory		very short lasting		If we lived forever and life was not transitory, do you think we would appreciate life 
										more or less ??
exhaustive		very detailed			Wikipedia makes no claim to be an exhaustive encyclopedia, as many obscure topics
										don't even have pages.
strenuous		requiring a lot of		One of the most strenuous races on the earth, Ironman Triathlon requires
				physical effort			swimming 2.4 miles, biking 112 miles, and then running a marathon.
										